# Bike-Sales-Analysis-2024
Sales Analysis of Bike Purchased
The sales analysis project focused to visualize and analyze the bike sales data from a dataset containing various customer attributes in the year 2024. The initial phase involved through data cleaning and transforming to ensure the data accuracy and consistency. By ensuring a clean dataset, the analysis could be performed with reliable data which laying a strong foundation for uncovering meaningful insights. Utilizing excels pivot table functionality, I’ve created various visualizations to evaluate the factors such as bike buyers around the region, by thier income, commute distance, gender, and thier occupation. The project culminates in an interactive sales analysis dashboard, representing minimum of five different charts providing a clear overview of key metrics and trends. This allows the users to lively explore the data.
This highlights the key findings, such as which regions’ purchased the most bikes and where targeted marketing efforts should be intensified. It also identifies the income brackets of bike purchasers, revealing the economic demographics most inclined to buy bikes and those less likely to. Furthermore, the analysis delves into bike buyers based on gender and commute distance, uncovering trends that indicate how these factors influence purchasing behavior.The combination of data preprocessing, detailed pivot tables and an interactive dashboard highlights the power of transformating raw data into an actionable commercial solution.
